Rich Dad Poor Dad: What the Rich Teach Their Kids About Money—That the Poor and Middle Class Do Not! (Robert T. Kiyosaki)

“My dad?” asked Mike with a scrunched-up face.

“Your dad and I have the same banker, and he raves about your father. He’s told me several times that your father is brilliant when it comes to making money.”

we began cleaning up the mess caused by our now-defunct first business.

On Saturday I caught the 7:30 a.m. bus to the poor side of town.

I felt claustrophobic as I entered the narrow living room that was filled with old musty overstuffed furniture that today would be collectors’ items.

He wore khaki slacks and a khaki shirt, neatly pressed but without starch, and polished work boots. He was about 10 years older than my dad.

I sat there perched on two rear legs of the chair.

I nodded my head quickly, but with a little trepidation.

you’ll ride with her to my superette and you can begin working.

Mike’s dad lowered his voice to a stern tone. “Take it, or leave it,” he said.

It was excruciatingly boring work.

On two sides of the store, the doors had to be wide open to the road and parking lot.

“He’s been waiting for me to get fed up?”

“You don’t need that damned job anyway,” said my poor dad with indignation.

“Take a seat and wait in line,”

The house was empty, and here I sat in a musty, dark living room on a beautiful sunny Hawaiian day, waiting to talk to a cheapskate who exploited children.

I could hear him rustling around the office, talking on the phone, and ignoring me. I was ready to walk out, but for some reason I stayed.

“I understand you want a raise, or you’re going to quit,” rich dad said as he swiveled in his office chair.

“Well, you’re not keeping your end of the bargain,” I blurted out, nearly in tears.

I said with a pout.

“That you’re cheap,” I said with a sly grin.

The poor and the middle class work for money. The rich have money work for them.

Lesson #1: The Rich Don’t Work for Money

We heard his truck pull up in the parking lot and sputter when the engine was turned off.

They work very hard for little money, clinging to the illusion of job security and looking forward to a three-week vacation each year and maybe a skimpy pension after forty-five years of service. If that excites

They work very hard for little money, clinging to the illusion of job security and looking forward to a three-week vacation each year and maybe a skimpy pension after forty-five years of service. If that excites you, I’ll give you a raise to 25 cents an hour.”

People’s lives are forever controlled by two emotions: fear and greed.

“The pattern of get up, go to work, pay bills; get up, go to work, pay bills. People’s lives are forever controlled by two emotions: fear and greed. Offer them more money and they continue the cycle by increasing their spending. This is what I call the Rat Race.”

“Instead of admitting the truth about how they feel, they react to their feelings and fail to think. They feel the fear so they go to work, hoping that money will soothe the fear, but it doesn’t. It continues to haunt them and they return to work, hoping again that money will calm their fears, and again it doesn’t. Fear keeps them in this trap of working, earning money, working, earning money, hoping the fear will go away. But every day they get up, and that old fear wakes up with them. For millions of people that old fear keeps them awake all night, causing a night of turmoil and worry. So they get up and go to work, hoping that a paycheck will kill that fear gnawing at their soul. Money is running their lives, and they refuse to tell the truth about that. Money is in control of their emotions and their souls.”

Let me explain the other emotion: desire. Some call it greed, but I prefer desire. It’s perfectly normal to desire something better, prettier, more fun, or exciting. So people also work for money because of desire. They desire money for the joy they think it can buy. But the joy that money brings is often short-lived, and they soon need more money for more joy, more pleasure, more comfort, and more security. So they keep working, thinking money will soothe their souls that are troubled by fear and desire. But money can’t do that.”

“In fact, the reason many rich people are rich isn’t

because of desire, but because of fear. They believe that money can eliminate the fear of being poor, so they amass tons of it, only to find the fear gets worse. Now they fear losing the money. I have friends who keep working even though they have plenty. I know people who have millions who are more afraid now than when they were poor. They’re terrified of losing it all. The fears that drove them to get rich got worse. That weak and needy part of their soul is actually screaming louder. They don’t want to lose the big houses, the cars and the high life money has bought them. They worry about what their friends would say if they lost all their money. Many are emotionally desperate and neurotic, although they look rich and have more money.”

As if on cue, the town derelict went past our table, stopping by the large rubbish can and rummaging around in it.

So many people say, “Oh, I’m not interested

in money.” Yet they’ll work at a job for eight hours a day.

‘Will a job be the best solution to this fear over the long run?’ In my opinion, the answer is no. A job is really a short-term solution to a long-term problem.”

Most people live their lives chasing paychecks, pay raises and job security because of the emotions of desire and fear, not really questioning where those emotion-driven thoughts are leading them.

It’s just like the picture of a donkey dragging a cart with its owner dangling a carrot just in front of its nose. The donkey’s owner may be going where he wants to, but the donkey is chasing an illusion. Tomorrow there will only be another carrot for the donkey.”

A softball rolled under our table.

I’ll take you boys into the briar patch, a place almost everyone else avoids.

The Tar Baby is in control. That’s what I mean by choosing your thoughts.”

“That’s what I will teach you. I’ll teach you to have a choice of thoughts rather than a knee-jerk reaction, like gulping down your morning coffee and running out the door.

Seeing What Others Miss

We burned them once they got too tattered.

Chapter Two LESSON 2: WHY TEACH FINANCIAL LITERACY?

It’s not how much money you make. It’s how much money you keep.


Intelligence solves problems and produces money. Money without

Intelligence solves problems and produces money. Money without financial intelligence is money soon gone.

Today we live in times of greater and faster change than these men did. I suspect there will be many booms and busts in the coming years that will parallel the ups and downs these men faced.



Rule #1: You must know the difference between an asset and a liability, and buy assets.


An asset puts money in my pocket. A liability

An asset puts money in my pocket. A liability takes money out of my pocket.

Cash flow tells the story of how

Cash flow tells the story of how a person handles money.

A person can be highly educated, professionally successful, and financially illiterate. These people often work harder than they need to because they learned how to work hard, but not how to have their money work hard for them.

It is said that the fear of public speaking is a fear greater than death for most people. According to psychiatrists, the fear of public speaking is caused by the fear of ostracism, the fear of standing out, the fear of criticism, the fear of ridicule, and the fear of being an outcast. The fear of being different prevents most people from seeking new ways to solve their problems.

A person can be highly educated, professionally successful, and financially illiterate.

They came at his beck and call, and cringed when he didn’t approve of them.

I also showed him the ancillary expenses that went along with owning the home.

All too often, a house only serves as a vehicle for incurring a home-equity loan to pay for mounting expenses.

Why the Rich Get Richer

Why the Middle Class Struggle

The reason they have to play it safe is because their financial positions are tenuous at best.

Years ago he got architects buzzing because he applied for a patent for something called a geodesic dome.

Years ago he got architects buzzing because he applied for a patent for something called a geodesic dome.

Wealth is a person’s ability to survive so many number of days forward—or, if I stopped working today, how long could I survive?

•   The rich buy assets. •   The poor only have expenses. •   The middle class buy liabilities they think are assets.

Chapter Three LESSON 3: MIND YOUR OWN BUSINESS

Financial struggle is often the result of people working all their lives for someone else.

I cringe every time I hear someone say to me that their net worth is a million dollars or

$100,000 dollars or whatever.

My $400 new titanium driver

My $400 new titanium driver was worth $150 the moment I teed off.

My $400 new titanium driver was worth $150 the moment I teed off.

Start minding your own business. Keep your daytime job, but start buying real assets, not liabilities.

keep your day job and mind your own business.

crook.

“chip in.”

the income-tax rate of a corporation is less than the individual income-tax rates.

cringe

create legal loopholes.

And the money I was making in my asset column in my own corporation was money working for me, not me pounding on doors selling copiers.

litigious

synergy

puny

weakling

spouting off sales pitches

steward

good steward over their assets.

slant.

chaologists.

delineating

wimpy.

staunchly

condominium

tithing.

tax-lien certificates,
